blog/ants-part-2/content.md, before:

# At the Mercy of Ants - Part 2

Run with the horses
and get trampled,
it's impossible to get anywhere.
Mount the chariot
and take the reigns,
the team settles under the yoke.
Bólè trained them,
Wángliǎng harnessed them,
an enlightened master called for them.
He did none of the work of training or outfitting,
but he drove them a thousand miles,
admired by every expert charioteer.

The way of the prince
is to do nothing
but to accomplish something,
to stand for something
but not to decide anything.
As soon as he does something,
he's criticized,
and when he decides something,
he's courted.
If he can't take criticism,
he can be bullied,
and if he can't resist flattery,
he can be seduced.

In either case,
when the power to appoint is at the mercy of others,
it’s impossible to maintain institutions.
Since good foundations don’t crumble,
promises to preserve them mean nothing.
He can live up to them
only through a complete change of heart.

Contentment means
not expressing inner desire.
Confidence means
not letting outside pressure get in.

Inwardly content,
outwardly confident,
when does he act irresponsibly?
Outwardly confident,
inwardly content,
when doesn't he get results?

Since he doesn’t manipulate them,
doesn’t force them,
but something motivates them,
and something makes them,
he doesn’t doubt their competence,
doesn’t do the work for them.
He respects rank,
expects results,
orders the government to run itself.
He leads the way in ignorance,
he's the boss to prevent abuse.

When he's like that,
his team is always well in hand.

Commit message:

Improve inner/outer saying and a few other words.

blog/ants-part-2/content.md, after:

# At the Mercy of Ants - Part 2

Run with the horses
and get trampled,
it's impossible to get anywhere.
Mount the chariot
and take the reigns,
the team settles under the yoke.
Bólè trained them,
Wángliǎng harnessed them,
an enlightened master called for them.
He did none of the work of training or tackling,
but he drove them a thousand miles,
admired by every expert charioteer.

The way of the prince
is to do nothing
but to accomplish something,
to stand for something
but not to decide anything.
As soon as he does something,
he's criticized,
and when he decides something,
he's courted.
If he can't take criticism,
he can be bullied,
and if he can't resist flattery,
he can be seduced.

In either case,
when the power to appoint is at the mercy of others,
it’s impossible to maintain institutions.
Since good foundations don’t crumble,
promises to preserve them mean nothing.
He can live up to them
only through a complete change of heart.

They say he's stable
when he doesn't act impulsively.
They say he's confident
when he doesn't let it get to him.

When he's self-possessed,
tolerant of others,
isn't that why
he doesn't act irrationally?
When he manifests confidence,
embodies forebearance,
isn't that why
he's the one in charge?

Since he doesn’t manipulate them,
doesn’t force them,
but something motivates them,
and something makes them,
he doesn’t doubt their competence,
doesn’t do the work for them.
He respects rank,
expects results,
orders the government to run itself.
He leads the way in ignorance,
he's the boss to prevent abuse.

When he's like that,
his team is always well in hand.
