blog/ants-part-1/content.md, before:

The old guy used to say that
a beached whale is at the mercy of ants,
and a prince who forgets his place
and tells ministers what to do
is at the mercy of bureaucrats.

A prince maintains his authority by doing nothing.
He knows his place
and builds trust by listening closely.
Ministers conceal their power
but don’t conspire against him.
Instead,
they control the boss by doing their job.

When a prince
doesn’t trust the experts
and likes doing it himself,
his power erodes every day
and he has only himself to blame.
Getting involved
makes it impossible to get good advice,
and abandoning the throne
makes it impossible to stay in charge.
If he’s not powerful enough to make them obey,
not ruthless enough to make them pay,
there’s no way for him to influence subordinates.

When righteous anger forms in his heart,
when he plays favourites in public,
those who once knew their place
stop doing the right thing
and start pandering to superiors.
When bureaucrats break the rules
and do as they please,
when they’re not rewarded for merit,
not held accountable for corruption,
that’s when the boss and his lackeys
are working against each other.

When the prince and his ministers hate each other,
when the administration is in chaos
and it’s impossible to keep ego in check,
when accusations are made
and it’s impossible to see reason,
when the accused are wronged
and refuse to take responsibility,
that’s when the master has to work even harder
and ministers get even more complacent.

So those who would guide
the great craftsman’s blade
rarely don’t cut their hands.

Commit message:

Add title and tweak ants-1.

blog/ants-part-1/content.md, after:

# At the Mercy of Ants - Part 1

The old guy used to say that
a beached whale is at the mercy of ants,
and the prince who forgets his place
and tells ministers what to do
is at the mercy of bureaucrats.

The prince maintains his authority by doing nothing.
He knows his place
and builds trust by listening closely.
Ministers conceal their power
but don’t conspire against him.
Instead,
they control the boss by doing their job.

When a prince
doesn’t trust the experts
and likes doing it himself,
his power erodes every day
and he has only himself to blame.
Getting involved
makes it impossible to get good advice,
and abandoning the throne
makes it impossible to stay in charge.
If he’s not powerful enough to make them obey,
not ruthless enough to make them pay,
there’s no way for him to influence subordinates.

When righteous anger forms in his heart,
when he plays favourites in public,
those who once knew their place
stop doing the right thing
and start pandering to superiors.
When bureaucrats break the rules
and do as they please,
when they’re not rewarded for merit,
not held accountable for corruption,
that’s when the boss and his lackeys
are at each other's throats.

When the prince and his ministers hate each other,
when the administration is in chaos
and it’s impossible to keep ego in check,
when accusations are made
and it’s impossible to see reason,
when the accused are wronged
and refuse to take responsibility,
that’s when the master has to work even harder
and ministers get even more complacent.

So those who would guide
the great craftsman’s blade
rarely don’t cut their hands.
