blog/meritocracy/content.md, before:

# Meritocracy

Some leaders think they're the smart one and everyone else is stupid.
They think they're the expert and everyone else is incompetent.
With a leader like that, the idiots ask questions,
and the genius has all the answers.
人主自智而愚人
自巧而拙人
若此則愚拙者請矣
巧智者詔矣

But when the leader has all the answers, people ask even more questions,
and those questions become even more questions,
and eventually, people ask about everything.
Even when the leader really is a genius,
it's impossible to know everything,
and since they don't know everything,
but people have to ask about everything,
the only way forward is to fail.
If you're one of those leaders and blame failure on subordinates,
how does that make you superior?
When you've failed and don't know you've failed,
problems come back as bigger problems.
They call you the master of dead ends
and nothing you lead survives.
詔多則請者愈多矣
請者愈多
且無不請也
主雖巧智
未無不知也
以未無不知
應無不請
其道固窮
為人主而數窮於其下
將何以君人乎
窮而不知其窮
其患又將反以自多
是之謂重塞之主
無存國矣

That's why the master of the road ahead
has influence but doesn't rule,
insists but doesn't command,
rejects opinion, rejects intuition,
stays still and empty and waits.
Doesn't criticize their words,
doesn't interfere in their work,
sets terms, establishes facts,
orders teams to manage themselves.
Leads the way in ignorance,
lets facts speak for themselves.
故有道之主
因而不為
責而不詔
去想去意
靜虛以待
不伐之言
不奪之事
督名審實
官使自司
以不知為道
以柰何為實

Yao asked, What does it take
to rule and hand over everything lit by the sun and moon?
Shun asked, What does it take
to be responsible for everything except the wilderness?
Yu asked, What does it take
to control the north and transform everything between Jiuyang and Qiguai?
堯曰若何而
為及日月之所燭
舜曰若何而
服四荒之外
禹曰若何而
治青北化九陽奇怪之所際

Commit message:

Leader to master in meritocracy.

blog/meritocracy/content.md, after:

# Meritocracy

Some masters think they're the smart one and everyone else is stupid.
They think they're the expert and everyone else is incompetent.
With a master like that, idiots ask questions
and the guru explains.
人主自智而愚人
自巧而拙人
若此則愚拙者請矣
巧智者詔矣

But when the master explains, people ask even more questions,
and those questions become even more questions,
and eventually, people ask about everything.
Even if the master really is a genius,
it's impossible to know everything,
and since they don't know everything,
but people ask about everything,
the only way forward is to fail.
If you're a master like that and blame followers for failing,
how does that make you a good person?
When you've failed and don't know you've failed,
suffering comes back as more suffering.
They call you the master of dead ends
and nothing you establish survives.
詔多則請者愈多矣
請者愈多
且無不請也
主雖巧智
未無不知也
以未無不知
應無不請
其道固窮
為人主而數窮於其下
將何以君人乎
窮而不知其窮
其患又將反以自多
是之謂重塞之主
無存國矣

That's why masters of the road ahead
inspire but don't act,
insist but don't explain,
reject discussion, reject analysis,
stay still and empty to be prepared.
They don't say anything critical,
don't do anything destructive.
They set terms, establish facts.
As public servants they manage themselves,
follow the road in ignorance,
and let facts speak for themselves.
故有道之主
因而不為
責而不詔
去想去意
靜虛以待
不伐之言
不奪之事
督名審實
官使自司
以不知為道
以柰何為實

Yao asked, What does it take
to rule and hand over everything lit by the sun and moon?
Shun asked, What does it take
to be responsible for everything except the wilderness?
Yu asked, What does it take
to control the north and transform everything between Jiuyang and Qiguai?
堯曰若何而
為及日月之所燭
舜曰若何而
服四荒之外
禹曰若何而
治青北化九陽奇怪之所際
