blog/meritocracy/notes.md, before:

I started looking at this passage
because it contains a term (數窮)
that also appears in
[At the Mercy of Ants - Part 1](https://daoistic.ca/blog/ants-part-1 "Read At the Mercy of Ants - Part 1") in _Wenzi_
and [chapter 5](https://daoistic.ca/studies/5 "Read chapter 5")
of the _Dao De Jing_,
and it turned out to complement
the _Wenzi_ passage remarkably well,
almost a footnote
that explains the exact process
that takes micro-managers
from power to irrelevance.
In this passage,
I've interpreted 窮 as failure,
and I think it works quite well.

Since the middle paragraph
contains two double negatives (無不)
and two triple negatives (未無不)
that don't work very well in English,
to make them more readable,
無不 becomes "everything"
instead of "there's nothing not".

The last three lines
don't really flow with the rest,
and they seem quite dense,
but I'm fairly confident
they express more or less what's there,
and it was enlightening to read about
[Yao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_Yao "Read about Yao"),
[Shun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_Shun "Read about Shun")
and [Yu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yu_the_Great "Read about Yu").

There aren't many helpful references
to 九陽 and 奇怪 in ctext,
and it's possible that these three lines,
and the Yu line in particular,
reflect some esoteric teaching
that's lost in time (or at least to me),
but I'd rather think they say
exactly what they seem to say
about the author's idea of a great leader.
If so, verbs and nouns get more specific line by line,
so Yao rules over everything
and transfers power
to an unrelated successor,
Shun is responsible for settled areas,
and Yu controls and transforms the north-east.
From this, I like to think that 九陽 and 奇怪
are the names of geographic features of the nascent
[Xia dynasty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xia_dynasty "Read about the Xia dynasty"),
and not references to anything magical,
though, of course, I could be wrong.

Commit message:

Leader to master in meritocracy.

blog/meritocracy/notes.md, after:

I started looking at this passage
because it contains a term (數窮)
that also appears in
[At the Mercy of Ants - Part 1](https://daoistic.ca/blog/ants-part-1 "Read At the Mercy of Ants - Part 1") in _Wenzi_
and [chapter 5](https://daoistic.ca/studies/5 "Read chapter 5")
of the _Dao De Jing_,
and it turned out to complement
the _Wenzi_ passage remarkably well,
almost a footnote
that explains the exact process
that takes the activist prince
from power to irrelevance.
In this passage,
I've interpreted 窮 as failure,
and I think it works quite well.

The passage is about the fate that befalls the 主
who 詔 while others 請.
In my interpretation, it's about the fate of the master or teacher
who explains to followers who ask questions,
but it could as easily be about the fate of the ruler or lord
who gives orders to subordinates who have to ask permission.

Despite my word choice,
國 and 官使 appear in the passage,
and it wraps up with statements by
culture hero leaders
[Yao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_Yao "Read about Yao"),
[Shun](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emperor_Shun "Read about Shun")
and [Yu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yu_the_Great "Read about Yu"),
so the passage definitely speaks
to the problems of political power.
However, I think the passage works as well
for leaders in positions of moral influence over others
at every level of society,
and I have to think
the ambiguity is intentional.

Since the second paragraph
contains two double negatives (無不)
and two triple negatives (未無不)
that don't work very well in English,
to make them more readable,
無不 becomes "everything"
instead of "there's nothing not".

There aren't many helpful references
to 九陽 and 奇怪 in ctext,
and it's possible that the last three lines,
and the Yu line in particular,
reflect some esoteric teaching
that's lost in time (or at least to me),
but I'd rather think they say
exactly what they seem to say
about the author's idea of good leadership.
If so, verbs and nouns get more specific line by line,
so Yao rules over everything
and transfers power
to an unrelated successor,
Shun is responsible for settled areas,
and Yu controls and transforms the north-east.
From this, I like to think that 九陽 and 奇怪
are the names of geographic features of the nascent
[Xia dynasty](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xia_dynasty "Read about the Xia dynasty"),
and not references to anything magical,
though, of course, I could be wrong.
