https://ctext.org/dao-de-jing#n11671

A small town, a few people.
小國寡民

Order them to produce ten times more,
but they'll just ignore you.
Threaten them with consequences,
but they're civilized.
They have war chariots
and no reason to harness them.
They have armour and weapons
and no reason to wear them.
Let them go back to the old ways
and take them as they are.
使有什伯之器而不用
使民重死而不遠徙
雖有舟輿無所乘之
雖有甲兵無所陳之
使民復結繩而用之

Their food is delicious,
their clothing is beautiful,
their homes are peaceful,
their ways are friendly.
甘其食
美其服
安其居
樂其俗

Neighbouring towns
are within sight of each other.
Their chickens and dogs
can hear one another.
People live out their lives
without invading each other.
鄰國相望
雞犬之聲相聞
民至老死不相往來

# Notes

Stability is all.

"Civilized" is 不遠徙.
The phrase appears
only a few times in ctext,
but I think it refers to settled people,
but phrased in the negative.
We are _not_ nomadic wanderers.

I like the implicit threat of
the two middle sayings.
Leaders who try
to impose "progress" by force
should expect violent reaction
from a healthy, settled society.

"Old ways" is 結繩.
The term refers to
a pre-literate method
of using knotted cords
to keep track of
(probably tax) obligations.

"Invading" is 往來.
It literally means
"come and go"
or "to and fro",
and again refers to
the unsettled wandering
that should be avoided
in the Doaist utopia.
The Chinese term
definitely doesn't have
the same meaning of violent assault
as "invade" in English,
but given the references to
to war chariots
and armor and weapons,
I can't resist.
